>> Steve Kinney: But you're thinking,
how do I avoid painting?
Isn't that fact of life when I'd
like to get pixels on the screen?
That's you all right now thinking,
I can read your minds, turns out.
My thing is, let the Compositor Thread
handle that stuff.
You're like, well what does that mean?
So here are some things that compositor
thread that works with the GPU is really
good at.
It's not good at drawing bitmaps, but
it's very good at taking a bitmap that
was drawn before and drawing it
in more different places, right?
It's good at scaling and rotating bitmaps.
It's good at making them transparent and
applying Instagram filters to them.
It's also good at mining Bitcoin, right?
There's lots of stuff you can do on
a compositor thread that you can ship on
over to it.
So generally speaking, whenever we're
doing some of these things, if we can pass
it off to the less-busy thread that's
only good, super good at a few things and
not do those on the very busy thread
that's not as good at those things,
we should totally do that.
So the browser does that and
it creates these things called layers.
Now this is a single website
where we have a sticky header.
And in this little 3D view
in the Chrome Dev tools,
you can see that it's on its own layer.
So if you've ever used Photoshop and
you have something on a layer and
you can move it around without
destroying the pixels underneath it.
It's the exact same concept, right?
So the top bar kinda floats above, and
we basically instead of repainting the top
bar over different pieces of text,
we're basically sliding the rest
of the page underneath it.
And we can have it like that.
And this is really kinda cool, and it's
why if you are looking at a retina screen
before when you took this for
a spin and you saw this happening,
you didn't see the paint before, because
it was like automatically on retina,
it will take anything on position
fixed and move it to its own layer.
Right, and you didn't see it but
on a non-retina screen, we don't do that.
The reason for
that is when you move it to its own layer,
you lose some pixel aliasing which
makes your font look smooth, right?
On Retina, you will never notice that,
on non-retina you could notice that so
the browser doesn't automatically do it,
and
that's why you have the difference there.
So it's like, I wanna know
everything about how to get stuff to
the compositor thread.
That's not possible or useful because
the compositing is kind of a hack.
It's not like, in the W3C spec.
Java Script is specced out,
the dom is specced out,
the CSS object model Inspector.
There are rules for
how these things behave.
Compositing is kinda done by browsers,
however they want with
the rights to change it.
We just need to know that it exists and
we're gonna talk about how to make
suggestions to the browser like hey, hey,
why do you make this it's own layer?
I think it will be good, right?
And the browser can choose to either
listen to us or not listen to us.
Some other kind of use cases.
We do our thing, this is our code
area with a side by side code and
then the Visual Studio Side and we have
this settings that slides out over it.
So that would cause a whole
bunch of repaints, but
because it's its own layer,
it slides out in front.
We slide it back when it's done,
the only repainting that you saw
there was the turning of the gear.
And select to drop down that I wanna talk
about, but jQuery plugin that's fine
yeah the thing slides out we don't repaint
any of those parts which very cool.
So all right I wanna use layers
through everything, that's great.
One does not simply use layers, right?
You can say I want this to be it's
own layer, you probably shouldn't.
We'll talk about why in a second.
But you're not really in charge of layers.
That's not your thing.
You can simply make recommendations.
There are optimizations that the browser
does for you under the hood.
Again they're not specced out.
You don't really have any control
over them but you can influence.
[LAUGH] You can bow before
the compositor king.
And ask to become a layer and
the browser can decide whether or
not you're worthy of becoming one.
So out of the box we saw that right now
those top bars got their own layers,
a few other things do as well.
The root object of a page gets its own
layer cuz you need at least one layer,
right, you need something.
Objects that have specific CSS
positions like position fixed,
so that's when, that's only on Retina.
That's when you saw that
header float above.
Objects with CSS transforms,
objects that have overflow so
if they can scroll those are usually
on their own thread cuz you don't wanna
repaint, wanna keep each part,
just basically slide it from underneath.
A bunch of stuff will get its own layer,
right?
Again it's a browser thing.
It's not necessarily for you, but
it can be really useful in
some of work that we do.
If you wanna know all the things,
you can be an elite hacker and
go read the Chromium source code, and
see, there's literally a file
called compositing reasons.
[LAUGH] And you can sit down with a cup
of coffee or a drink and sit there and
read through this file but
generally speaking the shorter list that
I showed you before is
probably a good start.
So an object that doesn't fall
under compositingreasons.h is
not going to get its own layer and
that's probably a good thing.
We'll talk about that, right?
It will be on the same layer as
the last element that did get worthy.
So it will go up to its parents.
Somebody got their own layer.
If nobody got their own layer, well,
the root object is on the layer's
one flat page, right?
It will just join the previous layer,
which makes sense.